---
layout: post
title: A troll to remember 
date: 2017-12-06
categories:
  - home
  - troll
comments: true
---

This happened in the summer breaks during May'2016. Apologies for bringing it late, but better late than never.
Please ignore the grammar, this was also posted on my facebook timeline. It's hilarious!

>Today my cousin brother of class 6 (who thinks highly of me, as an IITIAN :P), was sitting beside me as i was scrolling down fb. Thinking something deep he was, suddenly asked me "bhaiya , can you solve a ques. What comes next in 2, 8,15,24...". I was already so much involved in the fb posts, thought of answering in seconds , i gave a head onto it .....when i realised that 5 mins passed and no pattern coming up :3 -\_- . Not able to relate anyway those strange nos. at all. He looked upon me and said again " bhaiya, its a critical ques. from our textbook and i solved it immediately " .Baffled up! now i was serious, damn serious ! ... but wtf !! no answer coming up , blank i was ! totally embarrassed , i continued with the fb posts :P and said him very casually to save humiliation "Ok thennn ...say me the ans". He said " 33!! See... 2 and 8 differ by 6, 8 and 15 differ by 7, 15 and 24 differ by 8 so 33 as difference must be 9". I was like omg!! said " 15 and 24 differ by 9 not by 8 ! -\_- -\_- -\_-" .
>He acknowledged his mistake in framing the question . And i was like... !!! In relief i continued to scroll the posts with even more confidence , retaining the dignity of the IITIAN title :P xD xD.
>P.S- Ramanujan would still have found relation among them :P .
>P.P.S- Humour Intended, pl dont solve !!

I was thinking; what the hell just happened with me? Does my brother know that he trolled me in a great way? :P 
That was cute of him that he didn't realised that, but this deserved to be written and cherished!