---
layout: post
title: What are logs and why you need them
description: Ever wondered how big companies are able to provide statistical analysis of their products, how they constantly analyze their app services and are able to watch over their systems taking security measures when needed? Learn how!
date: 2017-5-30
tag:
  - logs
  - graylog
comments: true
---

## What are logs ?
Any important event that has occurred or messages across networks that is "relevant" for the operating system or software are stored as logs in our computers. In Linux systems logs are stored as files in `/var/log` directory. If you open one such file you will find these files have information in rows with many fields, broadly including date, time, software or system that issues the process, the process ids and message that is encountered. In general, there are various types of log files that are present, such as authentication logs, kernel logs, boot logs etc which are self-explanatory as to what logs they store. One such is `syslog`. It stores centralized log messages by following the `syslog protocol`. Suppose your computer is connected to a router, the router may send syslog message following the syslog protocol that is stored in the syslog file as a system logging event. Another example can be that your system connects to a server and the session with the server is stored again in syslog.<br><br>

## What manages the log for us ?
The management of these logs and their updations are governed by system utilities such as `rsyslog`, which claims to deliver over a million log messages in 1 sec. Multi-threaded and fully configurable this utility is one of the best logs manager.<br><br>

## So why do we need them?
We might not in our regular work learn the importance of such logs, but be not mistaken. These play a huge role for companies that want to extract statistical data of their products, analyzing their services dynamically, and taking security actions when they see their logs occurring in an unnatural manner. Generally, any company saves the session information of the product usage in form of logs in their servers. And when a single computer might have logs ranging in size from few KBs to MBs (unlike me if you don't change the rsyslogs config file in which case I have experienced logs of 75 GBs :P), it's wondering what can be the size of these logs for the large companies that have millions of daily users! And of course don't forget on top of that the requirement of efficient analysis, statistics, security and what not! It's not possible manually or even writing scripts to automate events. This is where `GRAYLOG` comes to the rescue. This web-application does all the managing stuff backhand. It uses `MongoDB` for storing metadata and uses `elastic search` for storing the logs and search purposes (a very fast document based data storing and search engine). Even you yourself can implement graylog server on localhost. (How? Stay tuned!)<br><br>

## Plan ahead!
So if you are planning ahead of a cutting edge start up, don't forget the importance of managing logs. There are other log managing services, but graylog is open-source, easy to deploy and use, and has a very healthy community of developers. In my next blog, I will write how to deploy a graylog server using `DOCKER` in localhost.<br><br>

## Important Links

* [Learn about logfiles](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-log-files-location-and-how-do-i-view-logs-files/)
* [Rsyslog](http://www.rsyslog.com/)
* [Graylog](https://www.graylog.org/features)
